# Khatri_Lee_Nam_2024_SybilAttackResistantBlockchainBasedProofOfLocationMechanismWithPrivacyProtectionInVANET.pdf

## Page 1

Citation: Khatri, N.; Lee, S.; Nam, S.Y.
Sybil Attack-Resistant
Blockchain-Based Proof-of-Location
Mechanism with Privacy Protection in
VANET. Sensors 2024, 24, 8140.
https://doi.org/10.3390/s24248140
Academic Editor: Yanjiao Chen and
Zhenchang Xia
Received: 12 November 2024
Revised: 14 December 2024
Accepted: 17 December 2024
Published: 20 December 2024
Copyright: © 2024 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
Article
Sybil Attack-Resistant Blockchain-Based Proof-of-Location
Mechanism with Privacy Protection in V ANET
Narayan Khatri 1, Sihyung Lee 2
 and Seung Yeob Nam 1,*
1 Department of Information and Communication Engineering, Yeungnam University,
Gyeongsan 38541, Republic of Korea; narayankhatrig@ynu.ac.kr
2 School of Computer Science and Engineering, Kyungpook National University,
Daegu 41566, Republic of Korea; sihyunglee@knu.ac.kr
* Correspondence: synam@ynu.ac.kr
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a Proof-of-Location (PoL)-based location verification scheme
for mitigating Sybil attacks in vehicular ad hoc networks (VANETs). For this purpose, we employ
smart contracts for storing the location information of the vehicles. This smart contract is maintained
by Road Side Units (RSUs) and acts as a ground truth for verifying the position information of the
neighboring vehicles. To avoid the storage of fake location information inside the smart contract,
vehicles need to solve unique computational puzzles generated by the neighboring RSUs in a limited
time frame whenever they need to report their location information. Assuming a vehicle has a
single Central Processing Unit (CPU) and parallel processing is not allowed, it can solve a single
computational puzzle in a given time period. With this approach, the vehicles with multiple fake
identities are prevented from solving multiple puzzles at a time. In this way, we can mitigate a Sybil
attack and avoid the storage of fake location information in a smart contract table. Furthermore, the
RSUs maintain a dedicated blockchain for storing the location information of neighboring vehicles.
They take part in mining for the purpose of storing the smart contract table in the blockchain. This
scheme guarantees the privacy of the vehicles, which is achieved with the help of a PoL privacy
preservation mechanism. The verifier can verify the locations of the vehicles without revealing their
privacy. Experimental results show that the proposed mechanism is effective in mitigating Sybil
attacks in VANET. According to the experiment results, our proposed scheme provides a lower fake
location registration probability, i.e., lower than 10%, compared to other existing approaches.
Keywords: VANET; proof-of-location (PoL); sybil attack; privacy; smart contract; blockchain
1. Introduction
Today, vehicular ad hoc networks (VANETs) are an important component of intelligent
transportation systems (ITS). VANETs are a subclass of mobile ad hoc network (MANET),
which provides communication opportunities between the vehicles or between the vehicles
and the roadside infrastructure. The VANET communication provides a data-sharing
facility to maintain the security and reliability of the transportation system. It provides
a wide range of services, including an entertainment facility, driving assistance, collision
avoidance, traffic management, and other safety applications. Nowadays, modern vehicles
provide enhanced sensing and networking functionalities with larger computation and
storage options [ 1]. VANET utilizes these facilities to perform its operations. VANETs
support a variety of communication modes, including vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V), vehicle-to-
infrastructure (V2I), vehicle-to-network (V2N), vehicle-to-pedestrian (V2P), and vehicle-to-
grid (V2G). The wireless technology used for this communication can be IEEE 802.11p [2]
dedicated short range communication (DSRC) or cellular networks (i.e., 4G, 5G) [3,4]. On-
board units (OBUs) facilitate message exchange between vehicles using V2V mode, whilst
vehicles and infrastructures communicate using V2I communication technology. There are
Sensors 2024, 24, 8140. https://doi.org/10.3390/s24248140 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sensors

---

## Page 2

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 2 of 28
two types of messages in VANETs: basic safety messages and event messages [5]. Basic
safety messages contain a vehicle’s velocity, time, location, elevation, heading, acceleration,
yaw rate, steering wheel angle, length, width, and other information, which are periodically
broadcast to neighboring vehicles. The event messages comprise road event information,
such as traffic congestion or accidents, which is transmitted over long ranges using V2I
technology [6]. These messages can be an important source for potential safety applications
and traffic management for the traffic control authority [ 7]. The dissemination of false
messages can mislead the vehicles and will be a risk to the safety of passengers or other road
users. Thus, it is important to evaluate the accuracy of messages transmitted by a vehicle
and infrastructure in VANETs. Furthermore, the rise in connected and autonomous vehicles
(CAEVs) poses security threats as smart vehicles connect through the internet. Hence,
the security of VANETs is crucial, and the related issues need to be dealt with carefully.
This paper proposes a proof-of-location (PoL) mechanism for mitigating Sybil attacks
in VANETs. A Sybil attack is a form of attack in which a malicious node generates multiple
fake identities called Sybil nodes to influence the functioning of a network. In a Sybil attack,
malicious vehicles create multiple fake identities that can generate messages resembling the
ones from valid IDs. In vehicular ad hoc networks, attackers can disrupt the functioning
of the network by generating fake messages. Consequently, the whole transportation
system will be unreliable, and the safety of road users cannot be guaranteed. Furthermore,
the generation of multiple pseudonyms by a single malicious driver and their location
information can pose the risk of a Sybil attack in VANET [7]. Thus, we propose a blockchain-
based PoL scheme for ensuring safety and security in VANET. We will store the legitimate
vehicle identity and location information inside the blockchain smart contract. Blockchain
is a secured and decentralized ledger that cannot be easily compromised due to its design
structure. The information inside the blockchain is stored in the form of blocks and each
block is linked with each other using the cryptographic hashes forming the chain structure.
A block comprises the hash of the previous block, timestamp, nonce, transaction data, etc.
In our approach, the transaction data will contain the location proofs of the vehicles passing
the polling process. The transactions recorded inside the blockchain is irreversible, i.e., in
order to change one block of record, all other subsequent block records need to be changed.
Thus, blockchain is a secured and decentralized database that can guarantee the security of
information stored inside it.
Various studies have been conducted on the detection of Sybil attacks in V ANET. Most of
these studies reconstruct vehicle trajectories based on message exchanges between a vehicle
and the infrastructure [7–9]. If two or more trajectories are not sufficiently distinct, the cor-
responding trajectories are assumed to be formed for the same Sybil node. Although these
studies can accurately identify a Sybil attack, they can impose an extra burden on the infras-
tructure, especially in dense traffic with frequent reports. Additionally , the way these studies
handle message exchanges can reveal users’ real identities and their location information,
raising privacy concerns. Thus, we propose a Sybil attack mitigation mechanism for V ANET,
which is both lightweight and privacy-preserving. In the proposed PoL mechanism, we store
valid vehicle location information inside the smart contract. This smart contract, which is
maintained by road side units (RSUs), act as the ground truth for the location verification
of the vehicles. We design a computational puzzle-based polling mechanism in which each
vehicle needs to solve a puzzle before submitting their location information to nearby RSUs.
The RSU issues a unique puzzle to the vehicles residing in its communication zone. If the hash
of the computation puzzle submitted by each vehicle is less than the difficulty target, RSU
stores the vehicle’s location information into the smart contract. The details of the computation
puzzle design and the difficulty target will be discussed in a later section. The key idea for
addressing the Sybil attack problem in V ANET is that a vehicle can solve a single puzzle at
a time, assuming that each vehicle has a single CPU assigned for the puzzle computation
task. Today , single-core ECUs are still dominant for V ANET communication as compared to
multi-core ECUs [10]. According to [10], most vehicle functions, such as heating, ventilation
and air conditioning (HV AC), or powertrain control, are developed for single-core ECUs in

---

## Page 3

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 3 of 28
model-based design languages. We will deal with the Sybil attack detection in multi-core
ECU environments in our future work. Furthermore, the identity and location information of
vehicles inside the smart contract is encrypted with a PoL privacy preservation mechanism,
thereby preserving the privacy of vehicles.
The main contributions of this paper can be summarized as follows:
• A new proof-of-location (PoL) mechanism is proposed for verification of vehicle loca-
tion in VANET and the prevention of Sybil attacks. It does not impose an extra burden
on the trusted authorities to manage the polling process as required in other works.
• The privacy of vehicles, including identity and location, is important. Thus, we handle
the privacy issues with the help of a PoL privacy preservation mechanism. With the
help of this approach, the trajectory of a given vehicle V cannot be traced by a third
party T easily. And the validity of the location of a given vehicle V can be proved to a
third party.
• Experiments and simulation show that the proposed PoL approach can mitigate Sybil
attack problems in VANETs. Furthermore, the use of smart contracts will ensure the
privacy of the vehicles and other entities involved in the VANET system.
The abbreviations used in this paper are provided in the Abbreviations Section.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 investigates related work. Section 3
provides the design goals, and the system framework is given in Section 4. Section 5
provides a detailed explanation of the proposed system. Section 6 provides the experi-
mentation and performance evaluation. Sections 7 and 8 provide security analysis and
conclusion, respectively.
2. Related Work
Various studies have been conducted on the detection of Sybil attacks in vehicle
networks. One group of studies rebuilds vehicle trajectories and examines if any pair of
trajectories shares similarities (i.e., if the trajectories belong to the same Sybil node).
Sybil attack detection deploying proofs of work and location has been studied by
Baza et al. [7]. RSUs provide a signed time-stamped tag as proof of a vehicle’s location.
Each vehicle needs to solve a PoW puzzle to obtain a location tag when it approaches the
next RSU. In this way, after a vehicle passes n numbers of RSUs, a trajectory is formed,
which acts as the vehicle’s anonymous identity. Then for detecting Sybil attack, two main
heuristics are developed based on traverse time limit and trajectory length limit to decide
whether two trajectories are distinct or agree with each other.
Benadla et al. [8] suggested a method for detecting Sybil attacks in vehicular fog net-
works utilizing RSSI and blockchain. The Sybil attack is detected at two levels:
first, by estimating the distance between the fog node and the vehicle OBU using the
RSSI signal intensity. A Sybil node is identified when a request comes from two vehicles
with a distance difference less than the threshold, which is the smallest distance that can
separate two vehicles from each other. Second, the position tag provided by fog nodes
determines the trajectory of vehicles. The possibility of a Sybil attack is determined when
two trajectories exist in the fog nodes at the same time.
Chang et al. [9] proposed a Sybil attack detection mechanism for vehicular networks
called Footprint. In this method, RSUs provide anonymous messages as proof of a vehi-
cle’s presence at a specific time. The trajectory of a vehicle’s anonymous identification is
determined by messages collected from the encountered RSUs. However, this approach
is vulnerable to RSU compromise attack as it is infrastructure dependent, i.e., RSU [ 7].
Hackers can create multiple fake trajectories by exploiting this vulnerability in areas with
sparse RSU presence.
Although these studies [7–9] can effectively discover Sybil reports, correlating different
pairs of reports and rebuilding trajectories impose an excessive burden on the infrastructure,
especially in the case of dense traffic scenarios. In contrast, our proposed work prevents
Sybil attacks rather than detecting them afterward. We mandate puzzle-solving before
sending a valid location, thereby limiting each vehicle to sending a single valid report at

---

## Page 4

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 4 of 28
a time. Moreover, this work focuses on maintaining the privacy of a vehicle’s location
information inside the smart contract table of the blockchain-based VANET system as
compared to the previous studies.
The blockchain-based privacy preservation mechanism in the VANET environment
has been studied in the literature [11–16].
In [11], RSUs maintain the relationship between a vehicle’s pseudonym and real
identity on the blockchain. The information included within the blockchain is public.
And there is no mechanism for privacy protection of the vehicle, and thus the vehicles’
privacy might be compromised. The certificate authority (CA) stores the pseudo ID of
each vehicle corresponding to the real identity in its database. Thus, this is a centralized
approach and has a risk of single point of failure.
Alharthi et al. [12] proposed a biometrics-based blockchain solution, BBC, for the privacy
preservation and security of V ANET. The biometrics information, such as a fingerprint, is used
to verify the integrity of the message and verify the identity of the message sender anonymously .
This biometrics-based authenticated certificate generation for vehicles can be a viable solution
for maintaining security and privacy in the V ANET system. However, this study does not
address how we can preserve the location privacy of the vehicles inside the blockchain.
It is very important to preserve the location privacy and user’s identity information
in VANET, as emphasized by Li et al. [13]. In this paper, the authors design a blockchain-
based identity and location privacy protection mechanism for VANET. The basic safety
messages are used for communication among vehicles and infrastructures in a VANET
system. They designed a dynamic threshold encryption mechanism for identity privacy
protection and k-anonymity unity for location privacy preservation of those safety messages
while uploading data to the VANET blockchain. This scheme is not feasible for vehicular
networks because of high processing power requirements and communication overhead as
a result of its complex design structure.
Qureshi et al. [14] developed a blockchain-based, privacy-preserving authentication
mechanism for intelligent transportation systems. The proposed system includes smart
contract-based data storage and access control mechanisms to ensure the privacy and
security of ITS users. Furthermore, access control policies are utilized to direct the on-
demand function to supply the necessary services.
Ahmed et al. [ 15] proposed a blockchain-based event message authentication and
trust management system for VANETs. The authentication of messages guarantees that
only legitimate vehicles take part in the communication process. However, this work
does not consider the security attack mitigation strategy in VANETs as compared to our
proposed work.
Location privacy preserving system using blockchain technology has been proposed
in [16]. They use vehicle certificates to request location information from the RSU. The use
of a certificate will preserve the privacy of vehicle information. This blockchain scheme may
be vulnerable to sophisticated attacks from hackers. Also the privacy of the information
can be leaked if we store information in the public blockchain.
Yang et al. [17] proposed a blockchain-based trust management model for VANETs.
The joint proof-of-work and proof-of-stake consensus mechanism has been developed for
finding the nonce for the hash function (PoW). The RSUs will take part in maintaining
this blockchain, which stores the reputation value for each vehicle involved in the VANET
event message communication. However, generating ratings for the vehicles involved in
communication is cumbersome, as discussed in [18].
Javaid et al. [19] proposed a smart contract-based secured framework for trust man-
agement in the internet of vehicles environment. They also proposed the identity privacy
preservation mechanism for vehicles by the application of physically unclonable functions
(PUFs). A PUF is the hardware fingerprint that uniquely identifies the vehicles in the
proposed system. The drawback with this approach is that the hardware fingerprint is
vulnerable to theft or vandalism thereby raising other security and privacy concerns.

---

## Page 5

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 5 of 28
The blockchain-based solutions [14–17,19] proposed the trust management and pri-
vacy preservation mechanism for VANETs. However, these works do not deal with the
security attacks (i.e., Sybil attack) mitigation strategy. The proposed PoL scheme is a hybrid
blockchain-based solution that deals with both privacy preservation and security attack miti-
gation for V ANETs. Thus, our work is a unique solution as compared to the previous works.
Maffiola et al. [20] proposed a simulation tool called GOLIATH, which is used for real-
time data collection for intelligent transportation systems (ITSs). The proposed blockchain-
enabled data collection mechanism allows vehicles to share their and their neighbors’
positions, which will be recorded on the ledger in a distributed fashion. This helps to
mitigate the single point of failure of the centralized system for trust and data management
in the ITS systems. This is the only simulator tool for VANET traffic data collection and
management with the functionality of attack scenario simulation. Thus, we have selected
this simulator for the simulation of our proposed work.
Most of the existing proof-of-location approaches have been dealing with either Sybil
attack mitigation or privacy protection separately. In addition, these approaches usually
did not consider a highly sophisticated Sybil attack case, where multiple legitimate vehicle
IDs are available to the attackers via hacking. Furthermore, earlier approaches suggest
solutions that are computationally expensive or impose extra burden on the transportation
management authority. Thus, this study attempts to fill this gap by considering the Sybil
attack mitigation and privacy protection together.
3. Requirements for Proof-of-Location Systems
This section discusses the requirements that proof-of-location systems need to satisfy
in terms of privacy, authenticity, and Sybil attack mitigation.
3.1. Anonymous Identity and Privacy
The proposed system should be able to maintain the vehicle’s anonymous identity
through the generation of pseudoIDs (PIDs). These PIDs are used by the vehicle each time
it reports the event information to the RSUs. The privacy of the driver and the vehicle’s
location is an essential issue that needs to be resolved while deploying blockchain-based
solutions in the VANET environment. The vehicle identities, such as plate number and VIN
number, are private and are maintained through the application of a PoL-based privacy
preservation mechanism.
3.2. Authenticity
Each entity in the proposed framework will be authenticated at response of the hand-
shaking procedure. Vehicles, RSUs, and verifiers will be authenticated on request based on
the identity information stored in the DMV .
3.3. Sybil Attack
A Sybil attack is a dangerous attack that will hamper the smooth operation of an
intelligent transportation system. The attack scenario assumes that the hacker has access to
multiple private keys, which they can use for generating fake vehicle IDs. These identities
can be acquired through a variety of techniques, including obtaining unused vehicle IDs
from the used car market, breaking into the vehicle registrar’s system, and hacking into
the other user’s vehicular systems. The proposed PoL system, which includes a puzzle
computation-based polling mechanism, will help to mitigate Sybil attacks in VANETs.
4. Participating Entities of the System
This paper proposes a Proof-of-Location scheme that mitigates Sybil attacks in VANETs.
The system comprises various entities, which work together for the efficient management
of traffic event information and location verification purposes. The system architecture of
the proposed scheme is shown in Figure 1.

---

## Page 6

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 6 of 28
Figure 1. The system framework of the proposed work.
4.1. Vehicles
Vehicles are the primary components of VANET message exchange. They are involved
in the transmission of safety and event messages to other vehicles and road infrastructures
such as RSUs. Vehicles tackle a unique challenge each time they pass the communication
zone of RSUs to verify their identity in the VANET system. Furthermore, they are involved
in the creation of anonymous identities, which can be utilized to protect the privacy of the
vehicles involved in event message generation. In our proposed approach, vehicles within
the communication range of neighboring RSUs communicate location data as shown in
Figure 1. RSUs further store this information in the smart contract. Authorities such as the
police department or insurance companies can be verifiers who utilize this information to
resolve disputes in the event of an emergency or a traffic accident.
4.2. Road Side Units (RSUs)
RSUs are road infrastructures that have communication capabilities and can take part
in location verification for vehicles. They communicate with the vehicle OBUs using the
DSRC protocol or cellular networks [18,21]. In contrast to vehicles, they have high storage
capacity and processing power. RSUs generate puzzles for the vehicles and verify if the
puzzle solution is correct or not. If a vehicle solves the puzzle, then the event information
containing location data is stored in a smart contract table by RSUs. We assume that
the RSUs are deployed with a similar distance between the consecutive ones along the
road section and it cannot be easily compromised by hackers. These RSUs maintain a
dedicated blockchain to store the information about the passing vehicle in the table of the
smart contract.
4.3. Certificate Authority (CA)
A certificate authority is a trusted authority that provides a certificate for the vehicles
and RSUs in the VANET system [22]. They can authenticate the real identity of the vehicle
and RSUs with reference to the DMV . As part of the initial stage, the CA participates in
vehicle and RSU registration as well as authentication in collaboration with the DMV .

---

## Page 7

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 7 of 28
4.4. Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV)
The DMV is a crucial part of the VANET framework. It is responsible for storing the
vehicle’s true identity, such as the vehicle identification number (VIN) or plate number,
the manufactured date, the buyer’s name, and so on, and delivering it to trusted authorities
such as CA whenever necessary [12]. Similarly, we assume that the DMV stores the true
identity of RSUs in its database.
4.5. Smart Contract (SC)
A smart contract is a piece of code that is invoked by RSUs and stores the location
information of vehicles [19]. RSUs can write to the SC table, but vehicles and other entities
can only read the information in it. The information inside the smart contract table cannot
be stored in plain text since it can leak the privacy of vehicles. As a result, this information
is hashed or transformed to make it difficult to infer the vehicle information using a privacy
preservation mechanism.
4.6. Prover
A prover is an entity that wants to prove its location information to the verifier [23].
The vehicles in the VANET system acts as prover.
4.7. Verifier
The location information of the vehicle can be verified by a third party, such as a
police department or insurance companies [23]. They need location information of vehicles
in case of accidents or to track malicious vehicles on the road. The validity of the event
message from a vehicle can be inferred by proving its location at a specific time. Thus, this
information might be critical for authorities to manage the transportation system reliably.
4.8. Transactions
The transactions involved in our proposed work comprise a vehicle’s identity infor-
mation, position information, and road event information [4]. The transactions consist of
timestamps and are signed by the initiator’s private key. To avoid third parties inferring the
trajectory of the vehicles, the information is hashed and secured with a PoL-based privacy
preservation mechanism.
4.9. Blockchain
The blockchain is a secured, tamper-resistant distributed ledger maintained by RSUs
for storing the smart contract tables. The blockchain consists of growing blocks of data
that are linked together through cryptographic hashes [24,25]. In this paper, we store the
position information of vehicles in the smart contract table of blockchain. The information
inside the smart contract table is in encrypted form and cannot be easily revealed. However,
the location information of the vehicle at a specific time can be proved to the third-party
verifier. The block containing vehicle location information is stored in the blockchain based
on the consensus of the majority of RSUs in the blockchain network.
5. The Proposed Proof-of-Location Mechanism
Figure 2 provides the flowchart illustrating the principle of the proposed proof-of-
location mechanism. In Stage 1, RSU starts the polling process, and the vehicle that
solves the computational puzzle within the time limit has a chance to register its own
location with the help of RSU. This computational puzzle lowers the possibility of a Sybil
attack. In Stage 2, the vehicle that provided the correct solution to the computational
puzzle will store its own location information inside the smart contract of the blockchain
without exposing its own identity. The verifier can verify the location of a specific vehicle
while preserving the privacy of the vehicle. A pseudo-code illustrating the functioning
of the proposed work is given in Algorithm 1. The detailed explanation of the proposed
mechanism is provided in Sections 5.3 and 5.4 with list of notations in Table 1.

---

## Page 8

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 8 of 28
Figure 2. Flowchart describing the outline of the proposed PoL scheme.
Algorithm 1 Algorithm for the proposed PoL mechanism
1: Input : location report (Li)
2: Output : proof-of-location (PoL) for Vi
3: Initialization: list of Vehicles ( Vi = [] ), list of RSUs ( Rj = [] ), Global − PID = [] ,
puzzle solution (Ni = [] ), smart contract (SCRj), verifier (Xi), g, q
4: Stage 1:
5: RSU(Rj) starts the polling process for vehicles in its communication zone
6: for each Vi in list Rj do
7: RSU− Rj issues random puzzle to Vi
8: Vehicle − Vi solve the puzzle and sends solution Ni with Li to Rj
9: if Ni is valid and on time then
10: Rj stores location Li in SCRj
11: else if Ni is invalid and not in time then
12: Rj discard location Li
13: end if
14: end for
15: Stage 2:
16: Vi sends Global − PID to verifier Xi through a secured channel
17: for each Global − PID received in list Global − PID [] do
18: Veri f ier− Xi query time ti and location Li to SCRj
19: Xi computes the validity check function f (ti, Li, d) and verifies the equality of
Zi = f (ti, Li, d)
20: if equality is valid, i.e., the location Li sent by vehicle matches with the information
in SCRj then
21: The location Li of Vi is verified
22: else if equality is not valid, i.e., the location Li sent by vehicle do not match with
the information in SCRj then
23: The location Li of Vi is not verified
24: end if
25: end for

---

## Page 9

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 9 of 28
Table 1. Notations.
Notations Description
Vi vehicle i
Rj RSU j
Pi plate number of Vi
Li location of Vi
Si secret key of Vi
ti
the time when Vi issues its location infor-
mation
T difficulty target to solve the computational
puzzle
PID Vi pseudo ID of vehicle Vi
PID Rj pseudo ID of RSU Rj
VIN i vehicle identification number of Vi
K+
Vi
public key of Vi
K−
Vi
private key of Vi
K+
Rj
public key of Rj
K−
Rj
private key of Rj
K+
SC(Rj) public key of smart contract SC at Rj
K−
SC(Rj) private key of smart contract SC at Rj
K+
Xi
public key of verifier Xi
K−
Xi
private key of verifier Xi
Cert Vi certificate of Vi
Cert Rj certificate of Rj
H cryptographic hash function
RID j RSU ID of Rj
g generator
q a prime number
5.1. System Initialization
The proposed system consists of five entities, vehicle ( Vi), RSU ( Rj), smart con-
tract ( SCRj), verifier ( Xi), and certificate authority ( CA). Vi represents the ith vehicle
(i = 1, 2, . . . . . . ,n), and Rj represents the jth RSU (j = 1, 2,. . . . . ., m). The SCRj at jth RSU
is used for storing location information of vehicles traversing its communication zone.
The CA generates certificates for vehicles and RSUs, which are signed by its private key.
We assume that CA generates certificates and keys for both vehicles and RSUs based on the
elliptic-curve cryptography (ECC) scheme of public-key cryptography. The notations used
in the proposed system are shown in Table 1.
5.2. Vehicle and RSU Registration
At first, vehicles and RSUs need to be registered to the CA in order to obtain the
certificate. The detailed steps are explained in the following steps.
Step 1: Vehicle Vehicle Vi sends vehicle identification number VIN i along with other
credentials to the CA for the first time registration process. The CA verifies the real
identity of the vehicle in collaboration with the Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV). If the
credentials of the vehicle Vi are verified, the CA provides a certificate to the vehicle sending
the request as in (1).
H0 = (Cert Vi ) (1)

---

## Page 10

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 10 of 28
Step 2: RSU Similarly RSU sends its identity information i.e., RID j and other informa-
tion to the CA for registration. The CA verifies the identity of the RSU from the DMV and
generates the certificate Cert Rj to the RSU as in (2).
H1 = (Cert Rj ) (2)
5.3. Computational Puzzle-Based Polling Mechanism
The message exchange among the entities of the proposed scheme is shown in Figure 3.
The first stage is the puzzle computation phase. In this phase, RSU generates a puzzle with
a nonce (nR) and RID j and sends it to the vehicles entering its communication zone. This
message is signed with the private key of the RSU, Rj i.e., K−
Rj
and consists of its certificate
Cert Rj. The vehicle Vi verifies the message using the public key of Rj, i.e., K+
Rj
incorporated
in the certificate. The vehicle confirms the message’s authenticity since the RSU signing the
message with its private key can only be decoded using its public key. Then, the vehicle
solves the puzzle and returns the solution to the RSU along with the nonce nR signed
with its private key K−
Vi
. Rj verifies the message using the public key of the vehicle Vi,
i.e., K+
Vi
. If RSU can verify the message and the nonce returned is the same as the one sent
before in the handshaking process, it authenticates the vehicle. Then, the RSU extracts the
puzzle solution X and checks if it meets the difficulty target T. If the criteria are satisfied,
the vehicle is given permission for further message exchange process in Stage 2.
The difficulty should be adjusted in such a way that the average puzzle computation
time does not exceed the threshold. The details of the polling mechanism and the average
puzzle computation time for each vehicle are provided in Section 5.5. A solution to the
puzzle means an answer that meets the criteria for the difficulty target. The lower the target
value, i.e., a longer sequence of preceding zeros in the target, the more difficult the puzzle
will be. Thus, the puzzle computation time and polling interval need to be determined
carefully. The puzzle can be described as follows using (3).
H(nR||Vi||Pi||Li||ti||X) < T (3)
where,X = solution to the puzzle,nR = puzzle nonce provided by the RSURj, Vi=H(VINi) = hash
of the VIN of vehicle Vi, Li = location of Vi, ti = current time, Pi = plate number of Vi, and
T = difficulty target of the puzzle. The H function used for computing the puzzle can be
the SHA-256 hash function. The puzzle computation process involves the vehicle sending
its solution along with its location and time information. This will prevent the vehicles
from precomputing the puzzle and using it for the PoL process. This makes our system
more efficient for Sybil attack mitigation in VANETs.
5.4. Privacy-Preserving Proof of Location
In this section, we will explain in detail the privacy preservation mechanism for the
proposed scheme. This is the second stage (i.e., information storage and query phase) of
the proposed PoL scheme for message exchanges between the vehicle and other entities
of the system, as shown in Figure 3. Initially, vehicles that solve the puzzle generate the
Global PID for themselves, which is the global pseudo-identity of Vi that will be utilized
for its location verification by the verifier. The Global PID of Vi is defined as follows:
PID g(Vi) = ( gPi mod q ) (4)
where Pi is the plate number of Vi. Then, the initiator vehicle will calculate two entities
vi and yi for securely storing the location information inside the smart contract. vi is the
nonce calculated as (5) and yi is calculated by hashing the summation of Global PID and
vi (2vi) times as (6). Here, the hash operation has been performed 2vi times to ensure the
privacy of the vehicle information. The application of hash operation multiple times helps
us ensure the security of the proposed approach. We note that Li = location of vehicle Vi,

---

## Page 11

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 11 of 28
Pi = plate number of Vi, Si = secret key of Vi, ti = current time, RID j = ID of the RSU Rj. g
is the generator and q is a selected prime number.
Figure 3. Message exchanges between vehicle, RSU, smart contract, and verifier.
vi = H(RID j||Li||Pi||Si||ti) (5)
yi = h(2vi)((gPi + vi)mod q ) (6)
where h(t)(x) = h(h(......h(x)) i.e., the hash operation has been performed t times. Then,
the vehicle sends the tuple (ti, Li, vi, yi) to the correspondent RSU after signing it to store
its location information. Then, the RSU will authenticate the sender of the message based
on its public key. After that it will calculate Zi as (7) using a cryptographic hash function.
However, the verifier can use it to verify that the PoL event information is produced from
vehicle Vi. The RSU stores the tuple (ti, Li, Zi, vi, n) in the smart contract table, which
consists the PoL information for each of the vehicle that passed the polling process as

---

## Page 12

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 12 of 28
shown in Table 2. n is a random number used for the purpose of one-time password during
the handshaking procedure of the location verification system. The value of n will be
randomly selected by the RSU, and the tuple (ti, Li, Zi, vi, n) will be stored inside the table
of blockchain by the RSU.
Zi = gti · gLi · yi mod q
= gti · gLi · h(2vi)((gPi + vi) mod q )mod q
(7)
Table 2. Structure of the smart contract table to store PoL information of vehicles.
Time Location Z v Random Number for OTP
ti Li Zi vi ni
Let us consider that there is an accident on the road, and the vehicles involved in
an accident need to prove their location to the verifier. The verifier acts as the mediator
between the vehicle owner and authorities to solve conflicts, e.g., to determine if the
insurance claim made by a vehicle involved in an accident is legitimate or not. The vehicles
involved in conflicts can provide false location data to hide their wrongdoing. Thus,
location verification of the vehicle is important. In order to prove its location, the vehicle
will send its Global PID to the verifier along with its time and location information. We
assume that the Global PID will be sent through the secure channel, e.g., by encrypting
with the public key of the receiver. Then, the verifier Xi can query the smart contract with
a request message consisting of the tuple (ti, Li) for location verification of vehicle Vi at
some time ti. The verifiers can be organizations such as police departments or insurance
companies, which have the right to know about the location information of the vehicles
involved in incidents. If there is a request from these authorities, the smart contract will
respond with the nonce vi generated by Vi at time ti along with the random number n
generated by the RSU to the related authorities. The verifier will calculate d as (8) using
Global PID, vi, and n obtained from the vehicle and the smart contract. Then, the verifier
will send d to the smart contract for validation of its knowledge of the existence of Vi with
a certain Global PID at a specific time. The smart contract will process the value of d and
returns true if the equality in (9) is valid.
d = h(n)((gPi + vi)mod q ) (8)
Zi = gti · gLi · h(2vi−n)(d)mod q (9)
The equality of (9) can be shown in the following way. If we put d in (8) into d in the
right side of (9), then the right side of (9) can be expressed as follows:
(gti · gLi · h(2vi−n)(d))mod q
= gti · gLi · h(2vi−n)(h(n)((gPi + vi)mod q ))mod q
= gti · gLi · h(2vi)((gPi + vi)mod q )mod q
= Zi
Thus, we have shown that the equality of (9) is valid only when the appropriate
value of d is provided by the verifier, and this value of d can be obtained only when the
verifier knows the Global PID of Vi. Thus, (9) will prove two things. Firstly, it proves
the location information of the specific vehicle with a given Global PID to the verifier
at some RSU. Secondly, it illustrates whether the verifier’s knowledge of that specific
vehicle’s information is correct or not. We will updaten by decrementing the value by 1
(i.e., n = n − 1) if the location of a particular vehicle has been verified by the verifier. This
is necessary to prevent a replay attack on the last step. For example, if n is incremented by
1, then the next d can be easily derived by hashing the previous d one more time because of
the following:

---

## Page 13

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 13 of 28
dnew = h(n+1)((gPi + vi)mod q )
= h(h(n)((gPi + vi)mod q )
= h(dold )
Let us consider a case a verifier wants to verify the location of a specific vehicle to
solve a criminal case for instance. In this practical scenario, the vehicles will provide their
Global PID, time, and location information to the verifier. Then, the verifier will query the
information against the smart contract table to determine the validity of the information
provided. The verifier cannot easily infer the information of the specific vehicle based
on the information contents on the smart contract table or the users information. This is
because of the use of hash functions to derive the value of Zi. The third party cannot easily
reverse the value of Pi or Li. Furthermore, finding the value of Pi given g, q, and yi from the
provided Global PID is hard because it is a discrete logarithm problem [26]. Therefore, the
proposed PoL-based privacy preservation mechanism can prove the location of a specific
vehicle at a given RSU without revealing its real identity.
5.5. Analysis of Polling Interval and Puzzle Computation Time
In this subsection, we analyze the polling interval and puzzle computation time.
Figure 4 shows the distance traced by a vehicle while the vehicle moves within the range of
a given RSU. r is the radius of the communication range of the given RSU. d is a random
variable denoting the distance that a vehicle travels within the communication range of the
RSU. x is a random variable denoting the distance between the RSU and the road followed
by the given vehicle. To simplify the analysis, we will assume that each road is straight
without a curve in this paper. If x is larger than d, then there is no interaction between the
corresponding RSU and the given vehicle, and thus, we need not consider those RSUs in
this analysis. Thus, we will assume that x is uniformly distributed between 0 and r, i.e.,
fx(x) =
(
1
r , 0 ≤ x ≤ r,
0, otherwise .
(10)
Figure 4. Distance traversed by a vehicle when the communication range of the RSU and the distance
between the RSU and the road is given.

---

## Page 14

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 14 of 28
From Figure 4, we can easily derive the following relation between d and x:
d = 2
p
r2 − x2 (11)
From (10) and (11), we can obtain
E[d] = E[E[d|x]] = R r
0 E[d|x = x] fx(x)dx,
E[d] =
Z r
0
2
p
r2 − x2 × 1
r dx. (12)
If we put x
r = sin θ and apply the technique of change of variable to the above
integration, then we have the following:
E[d] = 2r
Z π
2
0
cos2 θdθ = π
2 r (13)
If the average vehicle speed is va, then the average sojourn time of the vehicle (ta) can
be calculated as follows:
ta = E[d]
va
= πr
2va
(14)
under the straight road assumption within the range of the given RSU. If we want to sample
this vehicle at least once before it leaves the communication range of the RSU, the polling
interval needs to be shorter than ta in (14). If we decide to sample each vehicle about
two times considering the margin, then the polling interval Tpo can be calculated as
Tpo = ta
2 = πr
4va
(15)
The power consumption of the ECUs involved in the polling process can be controlled
by the complexity of the computational puzzle. If we want to maintain the utilization of
ECUs involved in the polling process lower than α , then the puzzle complexity needs
to be adjusted such that the average puzzle computation time ( Tpu) satisfies the follow-
ing constraint:
Tpu ≤ αTpo = παr
4va
(16)
We can consider an example scenario for the computation of polling interval and
average puzzle computation time as follows. Let us consider the following parameters:
r = 500 m (17)
The average vehicle speed is assumed to be
va = 40 km/h = 40 ∗ 103 m
60 ∗ 60 s = 11.1 m/s. (18)
Then, the polling interval will be calculated as follows,
Tpo = 1
2 × ta = π × 500
4 × 11.1 = 35.4 s. (19)
If α = 0.05, i.e., only 5% of ECUs power is utilized, then we have
Tpu ≤ α × Tpo = 0.05 × 35.4 = 1.77 s. (20)
Thus, the average puzzle computation time Tpu can be adjusted based on the value
of α. If the value of α is high, the puzzle computation time increases. Thus, adjusting the
value of α for puzzle computation will help to mitigate the Sybil attack in VANET.

---

## Page 15

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 15 of 28
From now on, let us discuss the relation between the complexity of the computa-
tional puzzle and the puzzle computation time ( Tpu). The computational puzzle can be
represented as follows:
h(π||x) < t (21)
where π represents the values determined by the given condition, t is the threshold, and x
is the only variable. X is a random variable denoting the number of attempts required until
the first success in the computational puzzle. Let us assume that h(.) is an ideal uniform
random hash function to simplify the analysis, and the hash value is l bits long. If t = 2l1,
then the probability that a value of x satisfies (21) is p = 2l1
2l = 2l1−l , and we can easily
know that X has the following geometric distribution,
Pr(X = k) =
(
(1 − p)k−1p, k ≥ 1,
0, otherwise .
(22)
In addition, the expectation of X is well-known as
E[X] = 1
p = 2l−l1 (23)
When δ represents a time required to run one hash function and one comparison in
(21), let us think about the probability that the total puzzle computation time (δX) is less
than a given threshold Tpu in (16). The following relation can be obtained as follows.
Pr(δX ≤ Tpu) = Pr(X ≤ Tpu
δ ) =
Tpu/δ
∑
k=1
(1 − p)k−1p (24)
or,
Pr(δX ≤ Tpu) = 1 − (1 − p)
Tpu
δ (25)
If we want to keep this probability higher than or equal to pt, then we have
1 − (1 − 2l1−l)
Tpu
δ ≥ pt (26)
because p = 2l1−l. If all the parameters, l, δ, Tpu, and pt, are fixed, the parameter l1 which
controls the complexity of the puzzle can be determined by solving the inequality (26),
and we can obtain
(1 − 2l1−l)
Tpu
δ ≤ 1 − pt (27)
or
1 − 2l1−l ≤ (1 − pt)
δ
Tpu (28)
Therefore,
l1 ≥ l + log2(1 − (1 − pt)
δ
Tpu ) (29)
If the value of pt is large up to 1, then l1 increases up to l according to the above
relation, and this means that the computation puzzle gets very easy and the whole system
can be vulnerable to the Sybil attack again. Thus, the control parameter pt needs to be
determined appropriately while avoiding large values close to 1. In the above relation,
the value of δ can be different depending on the vehicles or processors on them, and thus,
this relation may not be applied to practical situations directly. However, this relation can
be useful to find an initial value on a specific machine, which can be updated adaptively as
in Bitcoin case.

---

## Page 16

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 16 of 28
6. Experimentation and Performance Evaluation
6.1. Smart Contract Implementation and Gas Cost Analysis
To evaluate our scheme, we developed smart contract for vehicle and RSU registration,
update of vehicle information, and query of the information by the verifier. We have tested
our smart contract using the Sepolia test network of the Ethereum blockchain. Sepolia is the
default testnet for smart contract-based blockchain application development [27]. We used
remix IDE for the purpose of debugging and executing our smart contract. For fascilitating
the use of Ethereum blockchain, we have added MetaMask chrome extension in our
browser [27]. MetaMask is an Ethereum wallet that holds an Ethereum account and is used
for transactions between accounts. Furthermore, it allows us to view transaction details
on Etherscan.
In the beginning, we generate three accounts for CA, RSU, and V ehicle1 in MetaMask.
W e have implemented various functions such asregisterVehicle(), registerRSU(), getVehicleList(),
getRSUList(), registerEvent(), viewEvent(), registerSignature(), revokeVehicle (), update _In f o(),
and get() for simulation of our work in the Ethereum blockchain. These functions are
invoked from the particular accounts for demonstration of the VANET blockchain envi-
ronment. The functions registerVehicle () and registerRSU () are used for the registration of
vehicles and RSU, respectively. This operation is performed through the help of a trusted
authority. We can obtain the list of vehicles and RSUs registered in the blockchain using
getVehicleList () and getRSUList () functions, respectively. The function registerEvent ()
facilitates the initiator vehicle to register an event to the nearby RSU. Similarly,viewEvent ()
will help users to retrieve the event information initiated by a particular vehicle. The func-
tion registerSignature () will register the signature of the vehicles, sending the event infor-
mation along with the address of the signer. Some misbehaving vehicles can be revoked
by CA using the revokeVehicle () method. RSUs can also update the vehicle information
in smart contracts using update _In f o() function. The verifier can verify and obtain the
required information from the smart contract using the get() method. Figure 5 shows
the MetaMask popup for confirmation of the contract deployment when the function
registerVehicle () was invoked. If we confirm the estimated fee, the transaction will be
mined in the Ethereum blockchain. The smart contract has been written in solidity pro-
gramming language using the remix IDE environment. Figure 6 shows the snippet of the
front end to interact with the Ethereum blockchain with the smart contract code. Figure 7
provide the transaction logs that are generated as a result of registerVehicle function exe-
cution in the console. Figure 8 shows the transaction and gas cost for various operations
performed in Ethereum blockchain.
We now analyze the computation cost of the proposed smart contract for the VANET
blockchain implementation simulation environment in the Sepolia test network of Ethereum.
Table 3 provides the gas cost of the functions that we implemented for the VANET
blockchain smart contract. The list includes Gas Consumed, Ether Cost (in ETH), and the
actual cost in USD. We can see that the operations performed consume less amount of gas
and the cost in USD is minimal. Thus, the proposed system can be feasible for maintaining
the blockchain-based vehicular network environment.
Table 3. Gas cost for the proposed VANET blockchain smart contract (1 Ether = 2681.60 USD).
Function Gas Consumed Ether Cost (ETH) Cost In USD
registerVehicle 92,041 0.00000114715776573 0.0031
registerRSU 92,118 0. 000000101428973069 0.00027
registerEvent 145,142 0.000000096121497696 0.00026
registerSignature 96,283 0.000000088568049906 0.00024
update_info 59,721 0.000000079384553594 0.00021
revokeVehicle 25,527 0.00000008284361536 0.00022
get 25,087 0.000000089158179441 0.00024

---

## Page 17

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 17 of 28
6.2. Simulation Results
6.2.1. Simulation Setup
The proposed blockchain-based PoL scheme has been evaluated through simulation
using Veins, Eclipse SUMO (Simulation of Urban Mobility), and OMNeT++. Veins 5.2
is an open source software for vehicular ad hoc network simulations which is based on
SUMO and OMNeT++ library [28]. It uses IEEE 802.11p and IEEE 1609.4 [29] DSRC/WAVE
protocol at the network level. SUMO provides real-time traffic scenarios involving traffic
lights, buses, trucks, pedestrians, and trains, as well as other road infrastructures such as
road side units (RSUs) [30]. It is free software for generating VANET traffic scenarios, which
can be further utilized for network simulations. OMNeT++ is a C++-based simulation
framework for performing network simulations [31]. We have used the map of erlangen
for performing the VANET simulation as shown in Figure 9 [32]. The simulation consists of
100 vehicles interacting with each other with a maximum speed of 40 km/h. The simulation
parameters for our simulation work are shown in Table 4. The blocksize is 50,000 bytes and
the block generation time is set to 15 s in our simulation.
Figure 5. Vehicle registration in the Ethereum test network.

---

## Page 18

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 18 of 28
Table 4. Simulation Parameters.
Parameter Value
Simulation area 500 × 500 (m2)
Obstacle shadowing model Simple obstacle shadowing
Number of vehicles 100
Number of RSUs 5
Max speed 40 km/h
Data transmission rate 6 Gbps
Wave range 40 m
Blocksize 50,000 bytes
Block time 15 s
Consensus algorithm PoW (Proof-of-Work)
Computation power (α) 0.05
Simulation time 100 s
Figure 6. Remix IDE environment for VANET blockchain.
6.2.2. Evaluation Metrics
The metrics used for our evaluation are as follows.
• Successful Sampling Probability is the probability that a vehicle is sampled by an
RSU at least once while it passes the communication range of the RSU. It is computed
as follows.
P(S) = # of vehicles solving the puzzle
# of vehicles within a given RSU (30)
• Fake Location Registration Probability (FLRP) is the percentage of fake locations
accepted by a given RSU in a given time interval. It is computed as follows.
P(FLRP ) = # of fake location accepted by a given RSU
# of total location accepted by a given RSU (31)

---

## Page 19

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 19 of 28
• Malicious Block Insertion Probability is the ratio of malicious blocks mined over the
total number of blocks mined in the proposed blockchain.
• Event Message Propagation Delay is the time required to authenticate an event
message by a given RSU.
Figure 7. Execution logs for vehicle registration.
Figure 8. Transaction cost and Gas cost for smart contract functions.
6.2.3. Successful Sampling Probability vs. Polling Interval
Figure 10 plots the graph showing the relation between sampling probability and
polling interval based on the puzzle computation difficulty target t. In this simulation, we
fix the sampling time, i.e., the poll response collection time, to 1 s. The difficulty target
for the puzzle will be determined based on the hash algorithm used and the number of
leading zeros in the hash prefix. Since the SHA-256 algorithm has 256 bits of the hash
value, we have used 2256−D as the target for the computational puzzle. D is the number
of leading zeros for the target and it determines the puzzle difficulty. We can see from
Figure 10 that as the value of D increases, the sampling probability decreases. This is due

---

## Page 20

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 20 of 28
to the puzzle’s increased complexity, which causes vehicles to fail to solve the puzzle and
report their location data. Since the target was 2l1 in Section 5.5, we have 256 − D = l1. We
have shown the increase in l1, which corresponds to the decrease in D, leads to the increase
in the sampling probability. This analysis result agrees well with the trends in Figure 10.
Figure 9. Map of Erlangen used for VANET traffic generation.
When D is 15, i.e., the number of leading zeros is 15 and the polling interval is 30 s,
the sampling probability is approximately 95%. In this case, the puzzle computation time
will be less than 1 s. When the polling interval is short, the sampling probability is high.
However, as the polling interval increases, the sampling probability decreases. Thus, we
have selected 30 s as the polling interval for subsequent simulations.
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
 0.7
 0.8
 0.9
 1
 0  20  40  60  80  100
Sampling Probability
Polling Interval (Seconds)
D=15
D=20
D=25
Figure 10. Sampling probability vs. polling interval (sampling time = 1 s, D = number of leading
zeros of the difficulty target).
6.2.4. Successful Sampling Probability vs. Sampling Time
In this subsection, we will analyze the sampling probability by fixing the polling
interval and difficulty of the network. The polling interval is fixed to 30 s, and the difficulty

---

## Page 21

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 21 of 28
D will be 15 leading zeros. Figure 11 shows the sampling probability for various sampling
times. When the sampling time is below 1 s, the probability tends to increase from a
small number. As the sampling time increases over 1 s, the sampling probability remains
consistent around 97%.
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
 0.7
 0.8
 0.9
 1
 0  1  2  3  4  5
Sampling Probability
Sampling Time (Seconds)
sampling probability (proposed)
Figure 11. Sampling probability (polling interval = 30 s).
6.2.5. Fake Location Registration Probability
Figure 12 compares the fake location registration probability (FLRP) of our proposed
scheme and GOLIATH for various sampling times. Here, we have fixed the polling interval
to 30 s. The difficulty of the puzzle can affect the probability. The fake location registration
probability is affected by two factors; sampling time and the difficulty of the puzzle. When
the sampling time increases, the FLRP probability also increases. When the sampling time
is higher, malicious vehicles can use it to solve a larger number of puzzles and register
more fake location information. Thus, the probability goes on increasing. Furthermore,
when the difficulty of the puzzle increases, the probability decreases as the vehicles cannot
solve the puzzle easily. When the sampling time is around 1 s, the fake location registration
probability is lower. Thus, we can say that the poll collection time of 1 s can be a reasonable
choice for this case. And the polling interval of up to 30 s is acceptable for maintaining
a higher sampling probability. If we limit the vehicles to utilize a limited amount of
computational power (i.e., around 5%) to solve the puzzle within a limited sampling time
period, we can mitigate the Sybil attack problem in VANET.
However, in the case of GOLIATH, the fake location registration probability shows
a significant increase with the increase in the sampling time. There is no such polling
mechanism in GOLIATH for avoiding a Sybil attack. Thus, the proposed approach performs
better in terms of the fake location registration probability.
6.2.6. Malicious Block Insertion Probability
Figure 13 compares the malicious block insertion probability of the proposed approach
with that of GOLIATH [ 20]. In this simulation, we increase the number of malicious
vehicles from 0 to 100 with the total number of vehicles fixed at 500 and observe the results.
We can see from Figure 13 that the probability of malicious block insertion exhibits an
increasing trend as the number of malicious vehicles increases in the case of GOLIATH.
However, our proposed approach maintains this probability below 10%. In this simulation,
we limit the vehicles to utilize 5% of their computational power to solve the PoL puzzle.
As a result, the attacker cannot generate multiple solutions for the puzzle using fake

---

## Page 22

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 22 of 28
location data to store false information inside the smart contract table. This is because
the puzzle complexity is fixed, and vehicles can solve only one puzzle at a time with the
given computational power and sampling time. Therefore, the malicious block insertion
probability is maintained low with the proposed approach. Thus, the proposed approach
performs better as compared to GOLIATH.
 0
 0.05
 0.1
 0.15
 0.2
 0.25
 0.3
 0  2  4  6  8  10
Fake Location Registration Probability
Sampling Time (Seconds)
Maﬃola 2021
Proposed (D=15)
Proposed (D=20)
Proposed (D=25)
Figure 12. Fake location registration probability comparison (polling interval = 30 s) [20].
 0
 0.1
 0.2
 0.3
 0.4
 0.5
 0.6
 0.7
 0  20  40  60  80  100
Malicious Block Insertion Probability
Number of Malicious Vehicles
Maﬃola 2021
Proposed
Figure 13. Malicious block insertion probability comparison [20].
6.2.7. Event Message Propagation Delay
This is an important metric for the evaluation of the proposed VANET architecture.
Delay is the time taken to deliver an event message from a vehicle to a neighboring RSU.
Figure 14 compares the event message propagation delay among Yang et al. [17], Javaid
et al. [19], and the proposed PoL scheme. We can see from the figure that the proposed
approach maintains a lower delay as compared to other approaches despite the increase in

---

## Page 23

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 23 of 28
the density of the vehicles. Therefore, the proposed approach meets the latency requirement
for highly mobile VANET environments according to the simulation results. The low latency
is achieved due to the computational puzzle-based polling mechanism. The vehicles try to
solve the puzzle as soon as they enter the communication zone of an RSU. Thus, the delay
is minimized.
 0
 10
 20
 30
 40
 50
 60
 70
 80
 90
 0  100  200  300  400  500
Average message delay (second)
Number of Vehicles
Yang 2018
Javaid 2020
Proposed
Figure 14. Event message propagation delay [17,19].
7. Security Analysis and Discussion
7.1. Resistance to Sybil Attack
In this type of attack, malicious vehicles try to create many identities and generate false
messages to misguide other vehicles or impose security threats on vehicles. The proposed
approach in this paper mitigates this problem by developing a proof-of-location mechanism
that makes vehicles solve a puzzle before reporting any event messages they observe on
the road. The polling-based puzzle computation mechanism is designed for the vehicles
entering the communication range of an RSU, which will induce vehicles to solve a single
puzzle at a time. The polling interval and sampling time are fixed in order to sample
more vehicles for the puzzle computation task, thereby reducing false location registration
probability. This allows vehicles to utilize a small fraction of their computation power to
solve the puzzle. A vehicle is restricted to solving a single puzzle at a given time with this
approach. In this simulation, we have seen that the FLRP is almost zero when the polling
interval is 30 s and the sampling time is 1 s. Furthermore, the sampling probability is higher
up to 97% with the proposed approach. Thus, the proposed polling mechanism based on
polling interval and sampling time with the given puzzle complexity helps to reduce the
false location registration by malicious vehicles. Therefore, the proposed framework helps
to mitigate the Sybil attack problem in VANETs.
7.2. Privacy Preservation
The proposed approach should ensure the privacy of a vehicle’s position, plate num-
ber, VIN number, and RSU information. For this purpose, we employ the PoL-based
privacy preservation mechanism that guarantees the privacy of information storage in
VANETs. The system design incorporates a unique pseudo ID generation mechanism that
uses each vehicle’s secret key as well as other information each time it enters the RSU
range. The pseudo ID generation procedure is random and unpredictable. These data are
hashed in such a way that third parties cannot simply manipulate them. The use of the
cryptographic hash function guarantees the privacy of the vehicles involved in the message

---

## Page 24

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 24 of 28
communication. This is due to the fact that the one-way hash functions are irreversible, and
reverse engineering, given the hash, requires a brute-force search. Furthermore, the verifier
obtain Global PID through the secured channel and deriving plate number from it is a
hard problem. Thus, the proposed PoL mechanism realizes the location verification of the
vehicle while protecting its privacy.
7.3. Denial-of-Service (DoS) Attack
The proposed PoL scheme can withstand the denial-of-service attack launched by an
attacker. The attacker might attempt to submit a large number of solutions to the puzzle
in a short time interval. This problem can be resolved by employing a message signature
and blacklist. When a vehicle submits its own answer for the puzzle it needs to be signed
by its own private key. Thus, if a vehicle submits any incorrect solution to induce any
computational burden on the proposed PoL system, then the vehicle will be registered
in the blacklist. The blacklisted vehicle IDs and other information will be stored in the
blockchain. Then, the attackers cannot easily launch the DoS attack because their vehicle
IDs will be invalidated soon. It is not possible to send a signed message with an answer
with a fake vehicle ID if the attacker does not know the private key of that vehicle. These
countermeasures can help prevent from DoS attack in VANETs with the proposed approach.
More details about the blacklist mechanism will be investigated in our future work.
7.4. Implementation and Scalability Issues
In this subsection, we will discuss scalability issues, computation overhead, and com-
munication overhead associated with the proposed PoL mechanism. In this paper, we are
not dealing with maintaining the trajectory of the vehicles. Managing the trajectories of
vehicles can be costly and incur communication or computation overhead in the system,
especially when the number of vehicles increases. In the proposed work, we use smart
contracts to store the location information of vehicles instead of trajectory information. Our
proposed scheme utilizes one of the existing frameworks, i.e., Ethereum, especially for the
consensus mechanism. Thus, there is no additional computational cost to the blockchain
system. In the proposed PoL mechanism, the computational cost for the polling process
is limited because we are restricting the puzzle computation time for the vehicles. Fur-
thermore, the polling process is not a continuous process because short polling times are
separated by a long interval between them. Since the communication overhead happens
only during polling times, and this polling time is maintained short in the proposed PoL
scheme, the communication overhead is also limited. Thus, the proposed proof-of-location
scheme can be scalable in a practical situation.
7.5. Discussion
Table 5 compares the proposed PoL scheme with the state-of-the-art literature in the
field. We can observe from the table that the proposed work is effective for handling
the Sybil attack and privacy problems in VANET communication as compared to the
previous works.

---

## Page 25

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 25 of 28
Table 5. Comparison of the proposed work with the literature.
Sybil Attack Privacy DoS Scalability Computation Cost Blockchain-Based Overhead Advantages Limitations
Proposed Scheme ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Low ✓ Low
scalable solution,
do not impose
burden to TA
single-core ECU
assumption
[7] ✓ ✗ ✗ ✗ Low ✗ Medium high detection rate
burden to TA
for managing the
trajectories
[8] ✓ ✗ ✗ ✗ Low ✓ Medium high detection rate
burden to TA
for managing the
trajectories
[9] ✓ ✓ ✗ ✓ Medium ✗ Medium high detection RSU dependent
[11] ✗ ✓ ✗ ✓ Low ✓ Low blockchain based
solution
can not detect
Sybil attack
[12] ✗ ✓ ✗ ✓ Low ✓ Low biometrics-based
blockchain system
do not consider
Sybil attack
[13] ✗ ✓ ✗ ✗ High ✓ High efficient for
privacy protection
increase system
overhead
[16] ✗ ✓ ✗ ✓ Low ✓ Low low overhead can not detect
Sybil attack
[17] ✗ ✗ ✗ ✗ High ✓ High decentralized
approach
lack privacy
and security
solutions
[19] ✓ ✓ ✗ ✓ Low ✓ Low scalable solution do not consider
Sybil attack
[20] ✗ ✗ ✓ ✗ High ✓ High
decentralized
data collection
framework
high overhead
✓ Have been studied, ✗ Have not been studied

---

## Page 26

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 26 of 28
8. Conclusions and Future Works
The security of VANET systems is critical and one of the most active research topics.
Sybil attacks are considered to be one of the most serious types of attacks, which can
pose security risks. This paper discusses the Sybil attack mitigation approach in VANETs.
It is critical to take steps to reduce these types of dangers. Thus, this study proposes a
computational puzzle-based polling strategy for mitigating the Sybil attack in VANETs.
For this, vehicles need to solve a computational puzzle to report their location information
to the nearest RSU. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed PoL scheme can
mitigate a Sybil attack in VANET. This is a novel approach with significant potential to
safeguard the entire transportation system from attackers. The privacy of the vehicles is
important in VANET communication. Therefore, we propose a PoL privacy preservation
mechanism that protects the privacy of vehicles. The smart contract tables are maintained
by the miner nodes, and they contain vehicles’ location information. The verifiers can verify
the location of the specific vehicle by querying the smart contract table without knowing
the VIN number or plate number of the vehicle. The location and identity privacy of the
vehicle are maintained with the proposed PoL scheme.
In the future, we will investigate the proof-of-location mechanism for cases where
both single-core ECUs and multi-core ECUs are involved in the proof-of-location process
among diverse vehicles in VANET.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, N.K. and S.Y.N.; methodology, N.K. and S.Y.N.; validation,
S.Y.N. and S.L.; investigation, N.K.; data curation, N.K.; writing—original draft preparation, N.K.;
writing—review and editing, S.Y.N. and S.L.; supervision, S.Y.N., funding acquisition, S.Y.N. All
authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This work was supported in part by the Basic Science Research Program through the NRF
funded by the Ministry of Education under Grant 2021R1A6A1A03039493, and in part by the 2024
Yeungnam University Research Grant.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Dataset available on request from the authors.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.
Abbreviations
The following abbreviations are used in this manuscript:
VANET vehicular ad hoc network
ITS Intelligent Transportation System
V2V Vehicle-to-Vehicle Communication
V2I Vehicle-to-Infrastructure Communication
V2N Vehicle-to-Network Communication
V2P Vehicle-to-Pedestrian Communication
V2G Vehicle-to-Grid Communication
DSRC Dedicated Short Range Communication
RSU Road Side Unit
CA Certificate Authority
OBU On Board Unit
PoL Proof-of-Location
PoW Proof-of-Work
CPU Central Processing Unit
DMV Department of Motor Vehicles
ZKP Zero-Knowledge Proof
TA Trusted Authority
VIN Vehicle Identification Number
ECU Electronic Control Unit

---

## Page 27

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 27 of 28
References
1. Mateen, A.; Hanif, M.Z.; Khatri, N.; Lee, S.; Nam, S.Y. Smart roads for autonomous accident detection and warnings. Sensors
2022, 22, 2077. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
2. IEEE 802.11p-2010 ; IEEE Standard for Information Technology—Local and Metropolitan Area Networks—Specific
Requirements—Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications Amendment 6:
Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments. IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2010.
3. Wei, L.; Cui, J.; Zhong, H.; Bolodurina, I.; Gu, C.; He, D. A Decentralized Authenticated Key Agreement Scheme Based on Smart
Contract for Securing Vehicular Ad-hoc Networks. IEEE Trans. Mob. Comput. 2023, 23 , 4318–4333. [CrossRef]
4. Shrestha, R.; Bajracharya, R.; Shrestha, A.P .; Nam, S.Y. A new type of blockchain for secure message exchange in VANET.Digit.
Commun. Netw. 2020, 6, 177–186. [CrossRef]
5. Yang, Y.T.; Chou, L.D.; Tseng, C.W.; Tseng, F.H.; Liu, C.C. Blockchain-based traffic event validation and trust verification for
VANETs. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 30868–30877. [CrossRef]
6. Shrestha, R.; Nam, S.Y. Regional blockchain for vehicular networks to prevent 51% attacks. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 95033–95045.
[CrossRef]
7. Baza, M.; Nabil, M.; Mahmoud, M.M.; Bewermeier, N.; Fidan, K.; Alasmary, W.; Abdallah, M. Detecting sybil attacks using proofs
of work and location in vanets. IEEE Trans. Dependable Secur. Comput. 2020, 19, 39–53. [CrossRef]
8. Benadla, S.; Merad-Boudia, O.R.; Senouci, S.M.; Lehsaini, M. Detecting Sybil attacks in vehicular fog networks using RSSI and
Blockchain. IEEE Trans. Netw. Serv. Manag. 2022, 19, 3919–3935. [CrossRef]
9. Chang, S.; Qi, Y.; Zhu, H.; Zhao, J.; Shen, X. Footprint: Detecting Sybil attacks in urban vehicular networks. IEEE Trans. Parallel
Distrib. Syst. 2011, 23, 1103–1114. [CrossRef]
10. Sinha, S. Towards a Centralized Multicore Automotive System. Ph.D. Thesis, Boston University, Boston, MA, USA, 2022.
11. Zheng, D.; Jing, C.; Guo, R.; Gao, S.; Wang, L. A traceable blockchain-based access authentication system with privacy preservation
in VANETs. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 117716–117726. [CrossRef]
12. Alharthi, A.; Ni, Q.; Jiang, R. A privacy-preservation framework based on biometrics blockchain (BBC) to prevent attacks in
VANET. IEEE Access 2021, 9, 87299–87309. [CrossRef]
13. Li, H.; Pei, L.; Liao, D.; Sun, G.; Xu, D. Blockchain meets VANET: An architecture for identity and location privacy protection in
VANET. Peer Netw. Appl. 2019, 12, 1178–1193. [CrossRef]
14. Qureshi, K.N.; Jeon, G.; Hassan, M.M.; Hassan, M.R.; Kaur, K. Blockchain-based privacy-preserving authentication model
intelligent transportation systems. IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst. 2022, 24, 7435–7443. [CrossRef]
15. Ahmed, W.; Di, W.; Mukathe, D. Privacy-preserving blockchain-based authentication and trust management in VANETs.IET
Netw. 2022, 11, 89–111. [CrossRef]
16. Li, B.; Liang, R.; Zhu, D.; Chen, W.; Lin, Q. Blockchain-based trust management model for location privacy preserving in VANET.
IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst. 2020, 22, 3765–3775. [CrossRef]
17. Yang, Z.; Yang, K.; Lei, L.; Zheng, K.; Leung, V .C. Blockchain-based decentralized trust management in vehicular networks.IEEE
Internet Things J. 2018, 6, 1495–1505. [CrossRef]
18. Khatri, N.; Lee, S.; Mateen, A.; Nam, S.Y. Event message clustering algorithm for selection of majority message in VANETs. IEEE
Access 2023, 11, 14621–14635. [CrossRef]
19. Javaid, U.; Aman, M.N.; Sikdar, B. A scalable protocol for driving trust management in internet of vehicles with blockchain. IEEE
Internet Things J. 2020, 7, 11815–11829. [CrossRef]
20. Maffiola, D.; Longari, S.; Carminati, M.; Tanelli, M.; Zanero, S. Goliath: A decentralized framework for data collection in
intelligent transportation systems. IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst. 2021, 23, 13372–13385. [CrossRef]
21. Shrestha, R.; Nam, S.Y.; Bajracharya, R.; Kim, S. Evolution of V2X communication and integration of blockchain for security
enhancements. Electronics 2020, 9, 1338. [CrossRef]
22. Qiao, Z.; Ma, K.; Zhou, Y.; Yang, Q.; Xia, Z.; Yang, B.; Zhang, M. An Anonymous and Efficient Certificate-Based Identity
Authentication Protocol for VANET. IEEE Internet Things J. 2023, 11, 11232–11245. [CrossRef]
23. Ma, C.; Liu, Y.; Yang, Z.; Ma, J. Towards Building a Faster and Incentive Enabled Privacy-Preserving Proof of Location Scheme
from GTOTP .Electronics 2024, 13, 1443. [CrossRef]
24. Wei, W.; Zhu, N.; Wang, J.; Song, H.; He, J. A scalable blockchain storage scheme for VANET. In Cluster Computing; Springer:
Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2024; pp. 1–25.
25. Rafique, W.; Khan, M.; Khan, S.; Ally, J.S. Securemed: A blockchain-based privacy-preserving framework for internet of medical
things. Wirel. Commun. Mob. Comput. 2023, 2023, 2558469. [CrossRef]
26. McCurley, K.S. The discrete logarithm problem. In Proceedings of the of Symposia in Applied Mathematics USA, Louisville, KY,
USA, 16–17 January 1990; Volume 42, pp. 49–74.
27. Cuellar, D.; Sallal, M.; Williams, C. BSM-6G: Blockchain-Based Dynamic Spectrum Management for 6G Networks: Addressing
Interoperability and Scalability. IEEE Access 2024, 12, 59643–59664. [CrossRef]
28. Sommer, C.; German, R.; Dressler, F. Bidirectionally Coupled Network and Road Traffic Simulation for Improved IVC Analysis.
IEEE Trans. Mob. Comput. 2011, 10, 3–15. [CrossRef]
29. IEEE 1609.4-2016; IEEE Standard for Wireless Access in Vehicular Environments (WAVE)—Multi-Channel Operation. IEEE:
Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2016.

---

## Page 28

Sensors 2024, 24, 8140 28 of 28
30. Behrisch, M.; Bieker, L.; Erdmann, J.; Krajzewicz, D. SUMO–simulation of urban mobility: An overview. In Proceedings of the
SIMUL 2011, The Third International Conference on Advances in System Simulation, Barcelona, Spain, 23–29 October 2011; ThinkMind:
Coimbatore, India, 2011.
31. Varga, A. OMNeT++. In Modeling and Tools for Network Simulation; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2010; pp. 35–59.
32. Awan, K.M.; Nadeem, M.; Sadiq, A.S.; Alghushami, A.; Khan, I.; Rabie, K. Smart handoff technique for internet of vehicles
communication using dynamic edge-backup node. Electronics 2020, 9, 524. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.

---
